Add packagers.md (#229)
rizinorg/rizin: doc/PACKAGERS.md

Packaging
=========

Thank you for taking the time to package Rizin!

There are some things to consider when packaging Rizin for your distribution.
We will look at each step below.

Cloning Source
--------------

Rizin uses git submodules to track versions of dependencies. You can check out
the Rizin source and all dependencies using
`git clone --recursive https://github.com/rizinorg/rizin`.

> If you change branches run `git submodule update --init --recursive` to ensure

Reviewer: I would add a link to https://github.com/rizinorg/rizin/blob/dev/BUILDING.md .

you are tracking the correct versions of the submodules.

Building
--------

Rizin uses the `meson` build system. Command line flags passed to meson can
change how Rizin is built.

To define the base install location for Rizin use the `--prefix` flag when
invoking `meson`. For system installs it is common to use `/usr`. If in doubt

> check your distributions packaging guidelines.

Reviewer: Also
```
If you want to specify different directories for binaries, libraries, header files, etc. you may want to look at `--bindir`, `--libdir`, `--includedir` or check `meson setup --help` for more options. For extra control over the directories used by Rizin, have a look at options `rizin_sdb`, `rizin_zigns`, etc. in [link to meson_options.txt file]
```

> 

Reviewer: I would add something like:
```
If you do not use `/usr` as a prefix, you may want to use `-Dlocal=disabled` to avoid `RPATH` in the installed binaries.
```

Rizin uses the Capstone disassembly engine and supports versions 3, 4, and 5.

> By default we pull version 4 and statically link it into the Rizin executables.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default we use a custom version of Capstone based on v4 and statically link it into the Rizin executables.
```

Some distributions might prefer that a system version of Capstone be
dynamically linked at runtime. To do this, use the `-Duse_sys_capstone=true`

> command line option when running `meson`. See `capstone.md` for more details.

Reviewer: I would remove the reference to `capstone.md` and I would prefer to keep everything here in one file.

> 

Reviewer: I would add some paragraphs to mention the other compile-time options like `use_sys_magic`, `use_sys_zip`, etc. and add a reference to https://github.com/rizinorg/rizin/blob/dev/meson_options.txt . I think they are quite important for distros that want to avoid embedded code.

Once you are happy with the flags you have passed to `meson` to configure your
build you need to actually compile Rizin using `ninja`. You can do this with

> `ninja -C build`.  The `-C` flag tells `ninja` to change into the directory

Reviewer: Just mention the minimum things necessary and then reference BUILDING.md to avoid duplications.

`build` before building. If you do not specify a `target` the default target of
`all` will be used.

Packaging
---------

> The final step is creating a package from the build outputs. To do this we will

Reviewer: "To do this it may be required to invoke ... , based on the distribution you are targeting."

Not all distros actually require to set DESTDIR manually (e.g. for Fedora I don't need to do that).

invoke `DESTDIR=$PKGDIR ninja -C build install`.

Recall in the building step how we defined a `--prefix` to choose where the
software was going to be installed? If we just ran `ninja -C build install`
then we would install the software into that prefix which would be `/usr` using
the example above. That isn't what we want when we are packaging software for

> distribution! Defining `DESTDIR` allows us to choose a base location to install

Reviewer: ```suggestion
distributions! Defining `DESTDIR` allows us to choose a base location to install
```

to that isn't our system root. It could be something as simple as `rizin` which
would mean that `ninja` would actually copy our files to `./rizin/usr/**`.

There are files we want to include in the package that aren't installed using
`ninja` so we need to add these by hand.

To do this we can use `install` to create directories with the desired attributes
and copy the files in.

For example:

```sh

> install -dm644 "${pkgdir}/usr/share/doc/rizin"

Reviewer: instead of `${pkgdir}` i would use `${destdir}` to make it a bit clearer what this refers to
